feat(doc): Improve guide to dataset types with better examples (#2286)
OpenAccess-AI-Collective/axolotl: docs/rlhf.qmd

---
title: "RLHF (Beta)"
description: "Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback is a method whereby a language model is optimized from data using human feedback."
back-to-top-navigation: true
toc: true
toc-depth: 3
---

# Overview

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback is a method whereby a language model is optimized from data using human
feedback. Various methods include, but not limited to:

- Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) (not yet supported in axolotl)
- [Direct Preference Optimization (DPO)](#dpo)
- [Identity Preference Optimization (IPO)](#ipo)
- [Kahneman-Tversky Optimization (KTO)](#kto)
- [Odds Ratio Preference Optimization (ORPO)](#orpo)

# RLHF using Axolotl

::: {.callout-important}
This is a BETA feature and many features are not fully implemented. You are encouraged to open new PRs to improve the integration and functionality.
:::

> The various RL training methods are implemented in trl and wrapped via axolotl. Each method has their own supported ways of loading datasets and prompt format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We rely on the [TRL](https://github.com/huggingface/trl) library for implementations of various RL training methods, which we wrap around to expose in axolotl. Each method has their own supported ways of loading datasets and prompt formats.
```

    type: chatml.intel
```

> ## Trl autounwrap for peft

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## TRL auto-unwrapping for PEFT
```

> Trl supports autounwrapping peft models, so that a ref model does not need to be additionally loaded, leading to less VRAM needed. This is on by default. To turn it off, pass the following config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TRL supports auto-unwrapping PEFT models for RL training paradigms which rely on a reference model. This significantly reduces memory pressure as an additional refreference model does not need to be loaded, and reference model log-probabilities can be obtained by disabling PEFT adapters. This is enabled by default. To turn it off, pass the following config:
```
